# This one is dedicated to [Advent of Cyber 1 2019](https://tryhackme.com/r/room/25daysofchristmas)

## Typical HTTP request

GET /login HTTP/1.1 [1]
Host: localhost:3000 [2]
User-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (X11; Ubuntu; Linux x86_64; rv:61.0) Gecko/20100101 Firefox/61.0 [3]
Accept: text/html,application/xhtml+xml,application/xml;q=0.9,*/*;q=0.8 [4]
Accept-Language: en-GB,en;q=0.5 [5]
Accept-Encoding: gzip, deflate [6]
Connection: close [7]
Upgrade-Insecure-Requests: 1 [8]

- [1] The first part is known as the HTTP verb that tells the server what kind of action the client is requesting. THe most common types are: GET, POST, PUT, DELETE
  The second part refers to the path the action is directed towards - in this case the client is telling the server to get the login page. The third part refers to the protocol - in this case it is version 1.1 of HTTP protocol.
- [2-8] lines 2 to 8 are known as HTTP headers. Header are used by both the client and server to pass extra information to each respective entity. Headers are usually in the form Name: Value. 

## Typical HTTP response
When the server receives this request, it will respond to the action with an HTTP response. In the case of the following request, this is the response:

HTTP/1.1 200 OK[1]
X-Powered-By: Express[2]
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8[3]
Content-Length: 1493[3]
ETag: W/"5d5-ZdJhoKmkW86HklS/Wy+dOEaa80A"[4]
Date: Fri, 29 Nov 2019 00:20:52 GMT[5]
Connection: close[6]

<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>

- [1] The first part of [1] contains the version of the HTTP protocol that the server uses. The second part is known as a status/response code. Response codes are used by the server to indicate the status of a request. They are divided into the following classes:

1XX - Information Requests
2XX - Successful Requests
3XX - Redirects
4XX - Client Errors
5XX - Server Errors

- [2]-[8] are response headers used to pass information to the client. You may notice that [2] is prefaced with “X-” . This is usually the format of a custom header, so anytime you see something like that, it’s worth finding out more. After [6], depending on whether the request is successful, the server will usually pass in content of a page.

Here are some other things to note about the HTTP protocol that will be useful later on:

- HTTP is stateless: the server has no way to keep track of the order of requests the client is sending
- HTTP is unencrypted and is usually used with TLS to form HTTPS, an encrypted form of HTTP which uses certificates to verify that the website really is what is claims to be (i.e. google versus goggles)
- HTTP commonly runs on port 80 while HTTPS commonly runs on port 443 - these can be changed
- There’s a lot more that goes into making a connection from a client to the server and HTTP is only part of that


